---
aliases: [set theory tag]
title: 
description: 
draft: false
date: 
tags:
- set-theory
- tag
---
[[foundations of mathematics]]
# Notes

# References
``` ad-cite
[[Jech2011_SetTheory]]
```

# Language 
object, element
set 
subset 
proper subset 

inclusion
proper inclusion 

contains 


# References


## Lectures 
Essence of Set Theory - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2m0OzES6Uw9zK-F8BX8HuGq7HAx9KhQb


Zermelo Fraenkel axioms - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8yHsr3EFj52EKVgPi-p50fRP2_SbG2oi
Math 135 -- Intro to Set Theory - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLjJhPCaCziSQyON7NLc8Ac8ibdm6_iDQf

Set Theory - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLAvgI3H-gclbnCZdLWpPUZnvlnrirzDa6



Set Theory - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLO1y6V1SXjjOYeXXWeIXQrblyHOf1Fu3W

Axiomatic Set Theory - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLnNqTHlK5sGLD2zRusrX7q4uBshw9PNuD


[Introduction to Axiomatic Set Theory - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTpJiP-hRaV2ZKBQipaeWp7Yxk_IK5X-5)



## articles 
ZFC in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/ZFC

proposition in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/proposition

Peano arithmetic in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/Peano+arithmetic

signature (in logic) in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/signature+%28in+logic%29

sequent in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/sequent

logic in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/logic

membership relation in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/membership+relation

subset collection in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/subset+collection

power set in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/power+set

signature (in logic) in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/signature+%28in+logic%29

function in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/function

axiom in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/axiom

first-order theory in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/first-order+theory

second-order logic in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/second-order+logic

syntax in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/syntax

higher-order logic in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/higher-order+logic

term in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/term

natural deduction in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/natural+deduction

context in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/context

semantics in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/semantics

truth value in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/truth+value

cumulative hierarchy in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/cumulative+hierarchy

pure set in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/pure+set

empty set in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/empty+set

axiom of extensionality in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/axiom+of+extensionality

equality in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/equality

zero function in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/zero+function

identity element in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/identity+element

constant morphism in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/constant+morphism

initial object in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/initial+object

zero object in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/zero+object

one in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/one

singleton in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/singleton

function in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/function

operation in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/operation

initial algebra of an endofunctor in nLab
https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/initial+algebra+of+an+endofunctor

Primitive notion - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primitive_notion
